.TH I18N-MANAGER 1 "2025-11-26" "i18n-manager"
.SH NAME
i18n-manager \- small CLI to manage JSON translation files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i18n-manager
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.i i18n-manager
is a lightweight tool to check, sort, add, and find unused keys in JSON translation files.

Available commands:
.TP
.B check
Check N JSON translation files for missing keys.
.TP
.B sort
Sort and save translation JSON files (creates backups).
.TP
.B unused
Find translation keys that are unused in project source (use `--` to separate files from paths).
.TP
.B add
Add a key to a JSON translation file.
.TP
.B simple
Load a single translation JSON file and print a key's value.
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Lechner
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2025 Michael Lechner

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Adding a translation key
.TP
.B i18n-manager add examples/locales/en.json some.section.key "Hello world"
Adds the key `some.section.key` with value `Hello world` to `en.json` (creates a backup).

.SS Checking for missing translations
.TP
.B i18n-manager check examples/locales/en.json examples/locales/de.json
Reports keys that are present in one file but missing or null in others.

.SS Sorting and saving JSON files
.TP
.B i18n-manager sort examples/locales/en.json examples/locales/de.json
Sorts JSON keys in the provided files and creates backups.

.SS Finding unused keys
.TP
.B i18n-manager unused examples/locales/en.json examples/locales/de.json -- ./frontend/src
Searches project source for references to translation keys and lists keys that appear unused.

.SS Simple lookup
.TP
.B i18n-manager simple examples/locales/en.json messages.welcome "[MISSING]"
Prints the value for `messages.welcome` from `en.json`, or the fallback if not found.
*** End Patch